
                THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE


The Win32 binary distribution of OMNeT++/OMNEST contains several open
source components which are covered by their own licenses. These components
are listed below, together with their web sites where you can find more
information and the source code.

We'd like to thank the open source community for developing and making
these packages available. OMNeT++/OMNEST would not have been possible
without them.


Tcl/Tk

OMNeT++/OMNEST GUIs are based on Tcl/Tk, an open-source script language and
GUI toolkit, written by James Ousterhout and many others. Tcl/Tk is currently
available from http://tcltk.sourceforge.net, under a BSD-like license.

BLT

BLT is an extension to the Tk toolkit, adding new widgets and miscellaneous
commands. It does not require any patching of the Tcl or Tk source files.
OMNeT++/OMNEST uses BLT mainly for its chart, graph and table (multi-column
listbox) widgets. BLT is available from http://blt.sourceforge.net, and it
is distributed under a BSD-like license.

LibXML/LibXSLT

LibXML and LibXSLT are an open-source XML parser and XSLT processor,
written by Daniel Veillard for the GNOME project. The source is available
from http://www.xmlsoft.org. OMNeT++/OMNEST is bundled with Win32 binaries
maintained by Igor Zlatkovic, and currently available from
http://www.zlatkovic.com. LibXML, LibXSLT and ICONV (also a needed
component) are distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License
(LGPL).

Perl

Some of the tools are written in Perl, an open-source script language
written by Larry Wall. The source is available from http://www.perl.com.
OMNeT++/OMNEST is bundled with files from the ActiveState Perl distribution
(http://www.activestate.com). Perl is distributed under its own Artistic
License.

GraphViz

The model documentation tool opp_neddoc relies on the dot tool from
Graphviz, developed at AT&T to generate usage and inheritance diagrams. The
GraphViz home page is http://www.graphviz.org. The package is distributed
under the AT&T Graphviz Source Code Agreement which permits redistribution
of binaries.

Giftrans

opp_neddoc also uses the little program giftrans, attributed to Andreas Ley
<ley@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de> on the page http://www.gsp.com/cgi-bin/man.cgi?
section=1&topic=giftrans, along with a BSD-like license.

Ghostscript

For completeness, opp_neddoc uses Ghostscript as well. Ghostscript is not
bundled with the OMNeT++/OMNEST Win32 binary distribution: you have to
download and install Ghostscript before OMNeT++/OMNEST. We recommend a
recent version of AFPL Ghostscript (GNU Ghostscript is a bit behind with
versions.)

UnxUtils

Several GNU Unix tools have been included: grep, gawk, pwd, sed, gzip,
gunzip, zcat. These programs fall under the GNU General Public License, and
the source is available from http://www.gnu.org. OMNeT++/OMNEST is bundled
with binaries from UnxUtils, a package which contains Win32 binary ports of
these tools. UnxUtils is hosted at sourceforge.net:
http://unxutils.sourceforge.net.



